# EventTrackerApp

# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
This application required someone to develop and launch an app that fit one of three catigories. I chose to design and implement an event tracking application to help people with their schedule. The app needed to have a secure login screen, the password converted into dots, a database to store users and their password. Another database was also needed to store event data, a screen to display the event data on a grid, and a way to add, edit, and delete a row (event). This app was designed for businesses, parents, and project managers. There was also a permissions request that allows the user to toggle and access the SMS feature of the device. An SMS would be sent when an event date is near.
# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The event tracking application included a login screen where you can add your login information and login. A unique login is required to allow individuals their privacy of their schedule. Additionally, a grid that displays event information was created with a simple yet impactful austhetic. The UI design is extremely simple and intuitive for those who are not technically suavy on android devices. This design is successful because individuals can easily update their schedules within a few minutes of opening the applciation. The only required data is the title of the event. This feature allows for a quick entry that can be updated and edited later.
# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
Once I completed my design, I would work through the .xml layout files to get the UI to look as intended. Once that was completed I would code the functionality of buttons and screen navigation. In the future this can be applied to upgrades to the application by adding additional screens, or editing existing ones. The overall coding is modular, and the choice of using Java allows for cross platform editing so long as the device has a JVM/JDK. Unfortunately, some of the apps features only apply to a certain range of android versions, such as Android 9.0 (Pie) and on.
# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I tested the code two ways. First I would launch the application on a virtual android device with the applicable android version. Do this allowed me to see the UI design and maintain the simplicity. Once I was happy with the look, I would connect an android device to the computer in debug mode, and launch the application on the physical device. Doing this allowed me to experience the app as a user would. Any clunky features or layouts could then be further edited.
# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
Throughut the process, the Android Studio IDE would give recommended fixes. Although some of these worked out well, others would add unintentional side-effects to the application. Relying on the recommendations also made continued development increasingly more complex since I was not 100% versed in how the IDE would choose to fix the issue. Much time was spent debugging and understanding what was needed within the Activity class files. I consistently referenced documentation for unfamiliar components that were recommended or added via the IDE. 
# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
The login screen database came out very successful. I was able to use SQLLite to store user information. Additionally, the UI of each screen came out exactly as intended in the design plan. I defaulted to using the XML files instead of the layout gui to adjust the screen layout files.I believe this demonstrates my UI skills and experience with software design planning.
